# D5: Testing Plan and Documentation

0. I want to use this space to add references to the community fixes I'm using to get the game to work well. THESE FIXES DO NOT DIRECTLY EFFECT MY PROJECT, THEY ONLY EFFECT THE GAME ITSELF.

xNVSE- https://github.com/xNVSE/NVSE
NVAC- https://www.nexusmods.com/newvegas/mods/53635
NVTF- https://www.nexusmods.com/newvegas/mods/66537
Mod Limit Fix- https://www.nexusmods.com/newvegas/mods/68714

1. a) I plan on conducting the ad hoc and unit testing tests.
   b) These tests are best suited for my project because my project relies on usability and proper system intergration. The ad hoc testing will allow other players to attempt to play and find issues with my project while unit testing will make sure that all of the dialogue and quest scripting plays out as wanted.
2. My objectives with these tests are as follows: For unit testing, I want to make sure that the quest, scripting, and dialogue work as intended. To do that, I must interact with the NPCs, their scripting, and quest objectives to insure they work as intended. For ad hoc testing, I want the player to be able to complete the quest and be able to use Mario as a companion, regardless of any encountered bugs. Of course, I will encourage my testers to attempt to break my project so I can fix it.
3. Tests:

# Unit Testing

## Dialogue
The major testing I had to do in this category was related to the dialogue for the optional objectives, doing chores for Ryle and returning items to him. When I initially created these dialogue options, the dialogue would appear before the quest was started, as long as you had the items Ryle wanted. You could also reaccess the dialogue after completing the objective tied to it. After verifying this bug in the game, I went back into the tool and added the proper conditionals for the dialogue options to get them to show up when necessary, with the conditionals being tied to if the stage of the quest was the one the dialogue satisfied (the dialogue to return an item is only available during the stage when the player is asked to return it). Unfortunately, this means that these optional objectives must be done in a linear fashion, otherwise the aforementioned issues resurface. To make sure that the objectives can't be completed repeatedly, I have set conditionals that checks to see if the items are already present in Ryle's inventory. I have done this process, or at least one similar, with all the dialogue that involved conditionals.

Initially with some of Mario's dialogue pertaining to his companion functions, they did not act as intended. For example, when I would hire Mario, he would not switch to the hired package. This was remedied by adding "set MarioQuest.Status to 1" and "MarioREF.evp" to the dialogue's result script. The line "set MarioQuest.Status to 1" changes the Mario Quest's status to one, the variable it needs to be to set Mario to his "hired" AI package. "MarioREF.evp" tells Mario in the game to check which AI package he is using, since evp stands for evaluate script package. I followed this process for Mario's waiting and fired dialogue as well.

## Scripting/Packaging
There are two major scripts in this mod, the one that handles variables that set which AI package Mario is supposed to use and the one that manages the initial meeting between Mario and the player. For both scripts, the tool will not let you compile a script that is syntactically incorrect, so the scripts had to be correct in that way. Attaching the scripts to what they need to be attached to is a different beast.

When creating the script that handles Mario's AI packages, the proper variable had to be set as a conditional for all three of the major AI packages (hired, fired, waiting). Some of my initial issues with hiring Mario were related to not having the correct variables assigned to the correct packages, meaning that you could select the dialogue to fire Mario and he would start following you. This was fixed by changing the variables to the correct ones in the conditional statements in the AI packages. This script also needed to be added to the correct quest, which was done via drop-down menu in the quest's menu.

For the script that manages Mario's initial interaction with the player, it had to be associated with an object called an "activator." Once the script was created, I attached the script to an activator. When I tried to add the activator to the game, I found that I could not. This was because I was trying to copy and paste a preexisting activator, standard practice for many other objects in the GECK. This, of course, did not work in-game. I had to manually create a new activator, called "000MarioDialogueTrigger," and add the script, named "MarioTriggerScript," to the activator. After this, I was able to add and manipulate the activator in the tool. This was shown in a screenshot in the D4 document, along with the scripts I have been mentioning. After I went through the process this way. I was able to get the activator to work, meaning that Mario approaches the player and asks for help. One side effect of this is that Mario will continue to follow the player until they have the initial dialogue Mario is programmed to have with the player. This means that Mario will continuously follow the player until that dialogue is had.


# Ad Hoc Testing

For my ad hoc testing, I had two different people, Brian Cox and Cora Wright, play test my project. Since Brian has played the game before, I tasked him with finding any bugs or issues that he could while playing the mod to completion. This is so I can see how a veteran player would play through my mod and also to document any bugs or issues found in my project. Since Cora has never played the game before, I wanted them to play the quest of the mod how they naturally would. This is so I can have a gauge of how a new player might approach my project. I have linked the videos to both of the recordings below.

https://youtu.be/zoAGoz7w4oU

In this video, Brian plays through project as a player with prior experience. I tasked Brian with completing the mod the way he best saw fit while also looking for bugs. One bug of note is that Mario will follow the player until Mario finally interacts with the player. Brian also tries out some of the companion features, all of which are working as intended. Since Brian discovered several items linked to the optional objectives but did not complete them, I will note that once you collect the notes in the safe, you can no longer access the optional objectives. This is intentional. Brian notes the collision on the massive coffee cup in Ryle's office. The coffee mug is a resized version of the coffee mug in the game and resizing objects can often mess with how their collision works. This is not something I can fix without modifying game assets in a different tool than the GECK, which is outside of the scope of this project. Brian mentions that I should consider changing what dialogue is available when Mario is fired. I believe the dialogue is fine as is, since I would not want to have to hire Mario just to share items with him. Both NPCs in this mod are set to go unconscious when they run out of health, as demonstrated by Brian. This is to avoid failing the quest by killing the NPCs. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ZJ5sVAbk-0

In this video, Cora, first time player of Fallout: New Vegas, creates a character and plays through my project. Since Cora was a new player, I believe that it was best to help explain some of the controls of the game to them. Cora designed their character and their skills with no influence from me. At some points, especially later in the video, I do try to guide Cora towards other ways to approach the quest, but I let them play through it the first time with minimal interference, except to make sure that they were engaging with content that was part of my project and not the vanilla game and dlcs. Later in the video, after Cora completed their first playthrough of the mod, I partially guided them towards the other ways one could complete the quest. This was to see if a new player could easily complete the quest and its optional objectives. For the most part, the answer is yes, except when talking about lockpicking the safe in Mario's office. Ultimately, it seems that the lockpick skill needed to break into the safe is too high. This is something I have changed in a recent update to reflect my findings. Upon entering the main office interior, I realized that we were playing an older build of the project, so I switched builds mid video. Please note that all of the changes in the build we switch to are cosmetic and quality of life improvements, so the quest and companion functions were not any different. This video ended up being around 40 minutes long and gave me both a better understanding of how a new player would engage my project. This also shined some light on how long it might take for someone to explore every possible outcome of the mod.

In both of these tests, the dialogue is shown to be working as intended. The quest is working as intended. The companion functions are working as intended. The navmeshing in the interiors are working as intended. All in all, the bugs that were found in the tests were either fixable or bugs from the game itself and outside of the scope of this project, like ragdolling issues and collision issues.
